So let's start working on that shopping list form.
As mentioned, I want to use the template driven approach.
So in the shopping list edit component here, we already got our form element up here, now Angular
already
take control over this and we already get the forms module added in app module by default,
we of course will need this too.
So with the form here, we now can start working on our form controls.
I will get rid of these local references,
I will no longer use that approach,
I will also get rid of the click listener on the add button, instead
I want to use ngSubmit to submit the form and then call onAddItem here.
I also will get access to the form created by Angular and as you learned, we can get access by placing a
local reference on the form element
and now this would give us access to the form element itself but by setting this equal to ngForm,
we get access to this Javascript object Angular created behind the scenes and now we can simply pass
this object to this onAddItem method.
So that is how we can submit the form but we also should register some controls.
We get a couple of controls here,
let's start with the first one. Here on the name control,
I will assign a name, so the name attribute of name,
so a lot of names here but of course the name between the quotation marks is the name of the property we'll
later have in this form object Angular created and I will assign ngModel to this input, so that
we register it as a control in our template driven form.
Now for the second input, the name will be amount and then I'll also add ngModel and make sure that
you import it from forms module,
otherwise this is not available, so we should have this control added to our form too. And the add button
here will submit the form because it's only button of type submit,
the other two buttons are of type button. So in onAddItem, in this TypeScript file now, I no longer will
use my element refs here, so I can remove these declarations here,
I can get rid of the @ViewChild in element ref import and I can get rid of these two lines where I extract
the data.
I still want to create a new ingredient but now we will simply get the form here and it will be of
ngForm, so of this type.
Since this is the form, we will get the value of the form on the value property.
Now we can simply use the value and access name to get the name of the ingredient and value amount to
get the amount because name and amount were the names we specified here in our template on these input
elements.
Well, let's see if this works.
If I save this and we go back to the shopping list, ng serve is still running, here if I add Bread one,
that looks good. Works like before but now using the better approach of using the built-in tools and
therefore building a better form.
Now we can also take advantage of validation and so on and that is something I will do in the next lecture
.